.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1995
.\" written by Bob Glamm
.TH paradise 1 "15 March 2000" "Paradise Hackers" "Paradise Hackers"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
paradise \(em\& Space Conquest game based loosely on Star Trek

.SH SYNOPSIS
paradise [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I paradise
is a multiplayer network game based loosely on Star Trek.  In the standard
version, two teams play against each other to take planets, shoot at each
other, and to just generally have a good time.

.SH OPTIONS
.I paradise
accepts the following options:

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h host
Connects to a specific
.I host
server.  Default is to connect to the metaserver (see
.I -m
below).

.TP
.I \-p port
Connect to a specific
.I port
on a specific
.I host
.  The default is port number 2592, which is correct for the current paradise
servers.  Usually the 
.I -h
and
.I -p
options are used together for league games.

.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-x
Disable XPM mode.  Full color mode (using XPMs) is the normal mode for
Paradise.  Disabling full color (XPM) mode will result in faster window
redraws.

.TP
.I \-k
Turn on cookie mode (enabled by default along with XPM mode).

.TP
.I \-K
Turn off cookie mode (valid only when XPM is enabled).

.TP
.I \-O
Turn on OR display mode (valid only when XPM is enabled).

.SH EMERGENCY RESTART OPTIONS

.TP
.I \-2
Force client to act as if it is connecting to a paradise server.  Generally,
this option is not needed, except for an emergency reconnect.

.TP
.I \-G playernum
.TP
.I \-s port
Use these options to do an emergency reconnect to the paradise server you
were on.  The arguments to
.I -G
and
.I -s
are output when the paradise client is connected to the server.

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-c
Dump .xtrekrc/.paradiserc/.tedrc defaults.  The defaults that are
dumped out can be used as a starting point for creating your
own .xtrekrc/.paradiserc/.tedrc file.

.TP
.I \-d display
Sets paradise window to display
.I display
instead of the display pointed to by the environment variable DISPLAY.

.TP
.I \-e
Checks the expire time on the client.  Clients expire because of RSA 
requirements.

.TP
.I \-f
Displays a short message on how to get a new client via ftp.

.TP
.I \-m
Connect to metaserver to display a list of active servers with the number of
players on each.

.TP
.I \-o
Use old (non-RSA) authorization.  WARNING: this option is
.I obsolete
, and probably does not even work anymore.

.TP
.I \-r defaults_file
Use
.I defaults_file
as your paradise defaults file instead of ~/.xtrekrc, ~/.paradiserc, or
~/.tedrc.

.TP
.I \-t title
Use
.I title
as the title for your paradise window.

.TP
.I \-u
Print usage information, including a list of options and a reference to the
current WWW documentation page.

.TP
.I \-v
Verbose image loading.  Images are printed out or displayed in the warning
window as they are loaded.

.TP
.I \-C name
Use
.I name
as your alias when connecting to a paradise server.

.TP
.I \-F file
Replays a paradise game stored in
.I file
.  Use the recorder option within paradise to generate the file.

.TP
.I \-P password
Use
.I password
as your password when connecting to a paradise server.

.TP
.I \-R
Use normal RSA client authentication (default).  Required for some older
Bronco servers.

.SH FILES
paradise                The executable
.br
~/.xtrekrc,             Defaults file for paradise
.br
~/.paradiserc
.br
~/.tedrc
